So there's a special type of object that
we haven't talked too much about yet.
And these are missing values.
Missing values in R are denoted by either
NA or NAN which we talked about before.
NAN is used for
undefined mathematical operations.
And NA is pretty much used for
everything else.
And so, there's a function in R called
is.na which is used to test objects to
see if they are NA.
To see if they are missing
values in that object.
There's another function called is.nan
which is used to test for NANs.
So, NA values can have a class, too.
So you can have missing integer val,
values or
you can have missing character values or
missing numeric values etc.
And so
even though it looks like it's all NAs,
the NAs can have different
classes potentially.
And then it's an NA, an NAN value
is considered to be also NA, so for
example, an NAN value,
a NAN value, is missing.
Is considered to be missing.
So, but the reverse is not true.
So an NA value is not necessarily,
an NAN value.
I've got a few different types
of missing values listed here.
So, here I created a vector x
which is 1,2, NA, 10, and 3.
So, now, this is a numeric vector.
And the NA value in here's going to
be a numeric missing value.
So when I call is.na on x,
what it returns is a, is a logical vector.
And the logical vector indicates
whether each element of the vector x
is missing or not.
And so, there's only one missing
element in this vector, and so
that's the third element.
So you can see that the,
that the logical vector that's returned.
The first two are false,
the third is true, and the fourth and
the fifth are false.
So the, the, the element that's true
indicated where the missing value is.
If I call is.NaN on this vector,
you'll see that vector that's
returned is all false.
Because there aren't any NaN values, or
their aren't any MAN values in
this vector so everything's false.
Of course, if I create a vector that
has an end, a NAN value and an, and
an NA value in it.
You'll see that is.na returns true for
both of them.
But is.nan only returns true for
the for the value that's actually NAN.